# {{page-title}}

## FHIR profiles

### Profiling Guidelines
- The [Nictiz Profiling Guidelines for FHIR R4](https://informatiestandaarden.nictiz.nl/wiki/FHIR:V1.0_FHIR_Profiling_Guidelines_R4) have been used as guidelines for creating the profiles.
- The (element) descriptions present in het profile are taken from the dataset.
- The ['open world' modeling](https://informatiestandaarden.nictiz.nl/wiki/FHIR:V1.0_FHIR_Profiling_Guidelines_R4#Open_vs._closed_world_modeling) approach is adopted as much as possible.

### Dental care profiles
This profile constrains the base FHIR Observation resource to represent Dental Fitness in the MedMij Dental Care context, following the NATO classification system. The `.code` is fixed to SNOMED CT code 440271000146100 (dental fitness). The `.subject` may reference a Patient, preferably conforming to the Dutch nl-core-Patient profile. The `.effective[x]` element is sliced to allow effectiveDateTime, recording when the dental fitness was assessed. The `.performer` has a preferred reference to PractitionerRole in line with Nictiz Profiling Guidelins. The `.value[x]` element is mandatory and sliced to permit only valueCodeableConcept, bound with required strength to the MedMij Dental Fitness value set. The note element is optional but restricted to a single occurrence, with `.note.text` used for contextual or explanatory remarks.

#### ASA-score
This profile constrains the base FHIR Observation resource to represent an ASA-Score in the MedMij Dental Care context. The `.code` is fixed to SNOMED CT code 413347006 (ASA physical status classification). The `.subject` may reference a Patient, preferably conforming to the Dutch nl-core-Patient profile. The `.effective[x]` element is sliced to allow effectiveDateTime, representing when the score was determined. The `.performer` has a preferred reference to PractitionerRole in line with Nictiz Profiling Guidelins. The `.value[x]` element is mandatory and sliced to allow only valueCodeableConcept, and a required binding to the MedMij ASA Score value set. The `.note` element is optional but limited to a single occurrence, with `.note.text` used for contextual comments about the score.

#### Periodic Periodontal Screening Score
This profile constrains the base FHIR Observation resource to represent a Periodic Periodontal Screening (PPS) in the MedMij Dental Care context. The `.code` is fixed to SNOMED CT code 540501000146103 (periodic periodontal screening). The `.subject` may reference a Patient, preferably conforming to the Dutch nl-core-Patient profile. The `.effective[x]` element is sliced to allow effectiveDateTime, capturing when the PPS was performed. The `.performer` has a preferred reference to PractitionerRole in line with Nictiz Profiling Guidelins. The `.value[x]` element is mandatory and sliced to permit only valueCodeableConcept,and with an extensible binding to the MedMij Periodic Periodontal Screening value set. The `.note` element is optional but limited to a single occurrence, with `.note.text` used for explanatory or contextual comments.

#### Oral Hygiene
This profile constrains the base FHIR Observation resource to represent Oral Hygiene in the MedMij Dental Care context. The `.code` is fixed to SNOMED CT code 364126007 (oral hygiene finding). The subject may reference a Patient, preferably conforming to the Dutch nl-core-Patient profile. The `.effective[x]` element is sliced to allow effectiveDateTime, indicating when the oral hygiene was assessed. The `.performer` has a preferred reference to PractitionerRole in line with Nictiz Profiling Guidelins. The `.value[x]` element is mandatory and sliced to permit only valueCodeableConcept, and with an extensible binding to the MedMij Oral Hygiene value set. The `.note` element is optional but restricted to a single occurrence, with `.note.text` capturing explanatory or contextual remarks about the assessment. 

#### Caries Risk
This profile constrains the base FHIR Observation resource to represent Caries Risk in the MedMij Dental Care context. The `.code` is fixed to SNOMED CT code 74024006 (caries risk). The subject may reference a Patient, preferably conforming to the Dutch nl-core-Patient profile. The `.effective[x]` element is sliced to allow effectiveDateTime, indicating when the caries risk was determined. The `.performer` has a preferred reference to PractitionerRole in line with Nictiz Profiling Guidelins. The `.value[x]` element is mandatory and sliced to permit only valueCodeableConcept, and with an extensible binding to the MedMij Caries Risk value set. The `.note` element is optional but restricted to a single occurrence, with `.note.text` used for contextual remarks about the assessment. 

#### Parafunctional Activity
This profile constrains the base FHIR Observation resource to represent Parafunctional Activity in the MedMij Dental Care context. The `.code` is fixed to SNOMED CT code 110353005 (parafunctional activity). The `.subject` may reference a Patient, preferably conforming to the Dutch nl-core-Patient profile. The `.effective[x]` element is sliced to allow effectiveDateTime, capturing when the parafunctional activity was determined. The `.performer` has a preferred reference to PractitionerRole in line with Nictiz Profiling Guidelins. The `.value[x]` element is mandatory and sliced to permit only valueString, which records the described parafunctional activity. The `.note` element is optional but limited to a single occurrence, with `.note.text` providing explanatory or contextual remarks.

#### Procedure 
The mz-Procedure profile, which is largely based on the nl-core-Procedure-event profile, but not derived from the later profile, as the underlying functional requirements are not entirely compatible. An extensible binding to the value set "http://medmij.nl/fhir/ValueSet/ProcedureTypeDentalCare" has been added for `.code`.

#### TreatmentObjective
The mz-TreatmentObjective is a profile on Goal derived from nl-core-TreatmentObjective, where additional constraints and guidance has been added based on the TreatmentObjective building block used in dental care. An extensible binding to the HL7 Goal Priority value set has been added, where short-term objectives align with high priority and long-term objectives with low priority.